The Joe Rogan experience. Yeah. You know, and, uh,
that's why I'm only coaching a few now too, is we gotta, we,
we gotta be in this together and you gotta trust me. And I got,
I gotta be there for you. And if you trust me,
then every decision that I make for you, you've gotta trust whether it's, Hey,
don't take this fight. I mean, with the fight, the last fight, I was like, no,
you're not in a fight. And he's like, come on, coach. What, what fight is that?
This is the Tony fight. When he first got offered for the first time.
And I was like, no, we were at spar session and HES, like, why not?
And I'm like, cuz you said you'd never take a short notice fight. I'm like, no.
Yeah.
And then he, he was like 11 days. Right?
Crazy. And he, but we've, betrayd hard.
Like all then he hit me with all these points and he's like, dude,
with the coronavirus going on, who cares? He's like, let me get in there.
I need to fight someone right now. I need to release all this.
And his little basic points. I looked at him. I said, all right, is it good?
Are you gonna do it again? Are you gonna stick to your goal on the next one?
Cuz I, I might let you off on this one. And he said,
I will never take a short notice fight.
That's why the second time it was offered, he was even more about it.
And I was just look, he was like deal. It was seven days out.
Like I got nothing to lose, you know, I'll go out of my shield.
So this was the let's let's be clear for everybody. Yeah. The,
the first time was the, the LAORA California one, the Tai Chi palace. Yeah.
18th. Yep. April 18th. And that was how many days out.
So I got the call, I think, I think it was 10 or something like that. No,
I think it was, uh, it was like days before that fight.
I got the call one night. The next day I went, you know, I called him.
He said no, that night went to sparring the next day.
And then that's when I talked, you know, not talked him into it, but I,
I did like seven hard rounds. Uh, I felt great. You know,
I had been sparring so much. And so he was like, um, I was like, let's do it.
You know, I talked him into it and then so we,
we go hard and then I think it was, when did they cancel?
I think it was 10 days before the fight they canceled it.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and that's when you know it went out the window and then,
um, they called, so did you, did.
You fall right outta camp or did you, so I.
Tried, I was down to 1 68.
They called me at like 3:00 PM and that night I went to sleep at like
180 2. I went hard. I went, I, you know, just terrible choices.
I was like, what'd you eat?
What'd you eat?
You go to, I went straight to a, it's called McGill's world of ice cream. I got,
you know, double scoop with a WAFF of cone. And then we ate, uh,
pizza hu for breakfast. The next morning we had pancakes in my,
I had my cousin Quito there with me. He was helping me, uh, you know,
helping with my cookies and helping me around the house, uh, during that,
those hard, you know, 20 days and yeah, we went hard. Did you?
And then three days later they called me and they're like, you know,
it's May 9th. And I was like, that. I was like, I don't take short,
short notice fights. I was like, this last one was, you know,
10 days I get the benefit of the doubt of it being a late, late notice. Right.
And now they want me to do May 9th. You know that,
that goes out the window that you know me, that's not now.
It's not really a late replacement fight. It is, but it is for me.
And it is in general. But you know, the,
the general public would think, you know, this is,
he got a full camp and this is a real fight, blah, blah, blah. So I was like,
no, like I'm not doing it. So.
You, well, let me get this straight.
So you're not doing it because you fell outta camp and started eating again.
Because.
Because so the, the, the 20 day notice was like something very special.
Like that was something I definitely could have formed and I would've performed.
And I think this is the April 18th five. This is April 18th.
I think I would've performed. Uh, and I think I would've won.
I wouldn't have been as C confidence. I was,
I was terrified when they called me that night.
I was terrified I couldn't sleep the next day. I woke up terrified. Um,
cause I knew, I knew that this is not what I do. This is not how I do it.
This is, but.
Because you weren't fully prepared because.
There's no way to fully prepare in that amount of time. Right. My mind, my mind,
what I go in there and do I have to get my mind in a very, very special place?
How.
Much of it is that? And how much of it is physical?
You know, like physically I don't, I don't, I don't have that question.
I don't answer that question. I can't answer that question for you,
but here's question, I don't process that,
but it's not something I ever processed. This.
What I'm saying in this way. What, how physically prepared were you?
Were you in training?
Yeah, so I was just, um, I, I was my main,
I was the main training partner for Neo Magney. Oh, okay.
Often Hubbard when they fought in Vegas. Oh. Um, I was, I was in shape.
I was in shape. Um.
So the second fight, let me jump in here.
The second fight I thought was a way better way, better a,
a place to be from a conditioning standpoint,
because he was already in shape prior to the first one,
we just went two weeks so hard. Like we were trying to get, get his body in,
in shape quick. And that's, that's a hard thing to do.
Then he went and gained 12 pounds, which,
and we were four weeks outta that point, which is perfect.
Cuz the fourth week out, I always pull back on and let the body recover.
Cuz you're third in your second we car our peak weeks.
Those are the weeks that we need to really hit, hit, hit prime and,
and really push hard. And it was perfect fit. I'm like, dude,
we take this time off. You're going up and eating now,
you you're ready to go again. You, you got that little, that little, uh, uh,
fire back in your body cuz you're able to eat whatever you want.
And I thought it was perfect timing from how I train my athletes from a
conditioning standpoint. And I actually had to talk him into that one.
I was like, this is even better. Like, this is perfect for you for a five round.
So for your perspective, it was like he had a chance to recover,
eat all that food. Take a little break. Yeah. And that's good.
Cuz your body gets to charge back up again and then grind back down. Cause six.
And five on, on week six and week five are hard weeks. They're like a,
a start to those, those, uh, last two weeks of peaking cuz our, our fight week,
we slow down a little bit and we just turn the engine on, turn it off. So we go,
uh, six and five on, on the weeks are really hard.
Then we pull back on week four. We'll take like three days at,
are really light and then push it a little bit.
And then week three and week two are the ones that I'm trying to get him to peak
get hit five rounds. We're not doing six rounds, not doing seven.
We're making sure that we can go five minutes hard for every round. Be sharp,
not get lazy. And I thought it fit perfect two weeks. So.
When you're saying week two, you mean two weeks out? Two weeks.
Out. Yep. Yeah. Right before we leave for the fight, what.
Do you prefer? Like if you had a blueprint, like they, they came to you Trevor.
How much time do you want before a fight will schedule it around your time.
If you're in decent shape, eight weeks, eight weeks.
If you're outta shape 12 weeks, 12 weeks, cuz you take three or four.
If you don't lift weights for a little bit and then you come back and lift
weights and you ain't lift for six months or three months,
you're gonna get real sore. Yeah.
So you you've gotta have that break in process where your body cause your body's
gonna be shut down and you start to Ugh.
So you have to get through that process at just the pretraining and then you
start to hit it hard because you can't just go and hit it hard.
If you're 12 weeks out, you just can't. Mm. Interesting breaks you down. Yeah.
You're gonna get hurt. Yeah. So why did you feel that that was not a good fight.
The main nine fight?
I had no idea. I can, my body would respond as well as it didn't.
I didn't think I could be ready. A hundred to a hundred percent, uh,
without I've always done 12 weeks. That's my that's all I've known.
That's all I've.
Ever made.
So you felt like the first decision was just like a split decision is the middle
of COVID 19. I'm gonna do it anyway.
And then when they came to you the second time, you're like, no, no, no, no, no.
I, I want a real.
Kid. Yeah. So why can't we just push it to, to May 26th? Right. You know,
gimme three extra weeks. Then I get my whole,
then I get my whole eight to 10 weeks. Right. And that's all I asked for. Um,
so that was my mindset when they called me.
Cause I knew they were gonna call me the day before I was like, watch,
they're gonna call me.
And they don't want me to fight May 9th or something like that. And I,
and I knew it. And then my manager called me, he's like, May 9th, let's go.
I was like, that. I was like, no, he was so mad. No, I was like, that.
I was like, I ain't no puppy. I'm not gonna dance. When they want me to dance.
I was like I said, I don't take labor replacement fights.
This is now a late replacement. You know, this is different circumstances.
These aren't the circumstances, everyone. And even he was like, flabbergass,
he's like, what are you talking about? It's the same thing. I'm like, no,
it's not the same thing. Like to me, it's not, you know, like,
because I don't know. I just confidence is everything I know I can perform,
you know, I.
But you wanted everything to be done. Right. It.
Was the biggest fight in my life. Right. You know, of course, you know, and,
but ultimately, and then, and then when I thought about it, I was like,
it's only it's if it's anybody's fault, it's my fault. You know,
cuz I knew this, you know, I knew I was gonna fight again. And if I am not,
if I would wasn't I was training hard, but I wasn't training with the mindset,
you know, that I need to, I have old school wrestling mentality, you know, you,
you have to see the prize, you know, every single morning you wake up, you know,
the guy, the guy that you're gonna fight, you know that wasn't there.
That wasn't there when I woke up in the morning.
So I didn't feel like I was preparing in the proper way.
So for something at the, at that was at this level.
In my life. So you don't just need 10 weeks for your body.
You want it for your mind as well.
That's the most. Yeah. I mean that's the most important part to me.
I've been training since I was four. My body is, my body is a machine. Um,
you know, I do, I, I didn't know. I can get ready in that amount of time.
That what that's, what it comes down to. I had no idea, um,
because I I've never tried it mm-hmm <affirmative> um, but I was in better.
I had done better between fights. Um, since,
since I fought cowboy than I had ever done between fights in, in the, in the,
in the fact that I was staying in shape running, um, you know,
I had a chereadmill at my house. I was still sparring. I never, you know,
I took like two months off sparring, three months off sparring.
But then I was sparring for three, four months before I got that call rage.
And rage is hard to settle down. When someone hits rage,
like someone says something about your mama, I'm always like,
they don't even know your mama, like stop that. Like stop.
Well, there was a great moment after the second round,
after you got hit with that upper cut where you,
you came back to the corner and you told them, take something off your punches,
take about 10% off. Just hit 'em with clean shots. Yeah.
You try trying to murder 'em with every shot and then you made that adjustment.
Yeah. And that that's,
that was really interesting because a lot of times coaches would tell stuff to
fighters and the fighters probably know someone in their head,
but it's with them that they're starting to get tired.
It's with them that they got hit and then they lose some composure. Yeah.
They get emotional and they go out there and they wind up making mistakes.
You immediately adjusted and you went out there and you would see like,
by the end of that second round, when Tony hit you with that shot,
people were like, well maybe this is a shift in the, the direction of the fight.
Nope. The, the shift was the opposite way. You came out in the third round,
more technical and you came out and did exactly what Trevor said. Yeah. It's.
Uh, we worked long and hard on, on that. Um,
I trust him with, you know, with everything as he said, you know,
we wouldn't be,
he wouldn't be my coach if I didn't trust him with my life and with, with what,
everything I go in there to do.
What the. So when he said that to you, when he said he take 10% off. Yeah.
So I I'm.
Trying, the crazy thing is,
is you only see 10% of the interaction between us right. In between rounds. Um,
I'm right now I'm actually with talking to, thefc trying to get that whole,
that whole thing. But um, yeah, it was, um, I trying.
UFC trying to get what the recording. He's.
Trying to get his, his audio from his mic. Oh. Cause.
Um, you want to hear it and watch it. Yeah. Cause.
I don't remember it, you know? Right. Of Soest and just like, uh,
when it come to me in the fifth round and I was laughing mm-hmm <affirmative> I
had just asked the reason I was laughing is, cause I had just asked him, I said,
was that the end of the second or third round <laugh> and they're like,
this is a fifth round. I was like, no, it way. I'm in that good of shape.
I was like, no. Oh, away. And that's what that's when they cut in, you know?
So you don't see, there's so much, you don't see, uh,
in that interaction between me and him and it's.
So important for fighters to see that adjustment and how his endurance leveled
off. Cuz it was like you, you were having these wild exchanges. Yeah.
And you were put, you were fuckinghitting Tony, first of all,
Tony Orin is made out of metal. It's it's crazy.
It's crazy. Especially when you're talking about a, a body type,
like you were talking earlier about this, someone with a frail body type,
he doesn't have a, a chised neck, right? He's not Billy like mark. He is,
it's so unique to me. He's so tough. He's.
So tough. It.
Makes me want, is it a choice to go to sleep or not like, but there's,
there's also.
A key. Like if, if a fighter could take something on, on understanding,
coachability is like, you have to have your reactions,
but you also have to have your responses. Like reactive stuff is like,
like jabs, positional stuff is reactive.
Like you have to be able to react to positions. First. I love, uh,
jujitsu because it's uh, it's positioned before submission.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> you have to react to, to positions before anything else.
So there's reactive stuff. But the response is,
is why you have a copi-pilot to help you see what you can see and start noticing
that.
Or how are you playing defense and using a jab to find openings where you're
still working, but you're thinking and going, oh, every time he does this,
he's dropping his hand. Andre. You're able to see things.
That's where you have to be responsive.
And you have to be aware in the moment where a lot of times people can't,
they just bite down.
They just bite down on that MI down piece mm<affirmative> and very similar to
the way you used to fight was bite down. Their eyes are getting big.
Oh that's my response is like, continue to do this. And uh,
they'rere gonna fall. And a again,
that is a very important point is a coach and the athlete understanding I am
there to help you with your responses in the gym.
I'm gonna create your reactions. I'm gonna create your patterns,
your basic fundamental patterns.
That's gonna help you win positions and slightly win rounds where you're
controlling the fight.
The other piece is how am I slowly creating momentum to get finishes?
It was pretty stunning. How well you,
you adapted and then also how your endurance leveled off. Like,
so cuz you,
you did seem like you were slowing down a little bit at the second round,
but it was because you were sprinting because you were throwing these full power
haymakers. But then when you leveled off in that third round,
then it's like you had an endless gas tank and that's,
that was interesting in control.
Yourself. Yes. If you're making decisions, it's a lot easy on your psyche. Yeah.
When you're trying to just fight out of things all the time, again,
you're not in control. If you can't control your thought,
you cannot control your breathing.
How stunned were you that Tony could take those shots.
In the fight? You know, I there's there's no, there's no point where I,
where I even understand you. Weren't.
Thinking at all, just throwing him. No, I, you know.
It was crazy. The shots I hit, you know, John or, um,
Vic barbboza and one with, I was so surprised they went to sleep. Um,
you know, I just, I didn't understand why I think it was positioned mostly,
but yeah, I was when I was hitting him with some of those shots, um,
especially the one when I came through and he was throwing an uppercut.
I couldn't believe he, he didn't go to sleep with that,
but I go back to the Michael Johnson fight when he hit me with that left hand.
There's no reason I shouldn't have went to sleep then. Um, so I, I don't,
I haven't figured that part. Johnson has a very good.
Left hand. See when he knocked out Poer with that same point,
one of the sharpest left.
Hand and I was turning through it and it was on the chin. It was everything.
A knockout shot should be. I don't know why I didn't go to sleep. I,
I gotta figure that part out. I know how people go to sleep.
I don't know how people.
Don't go to sleep. They don't go to sleep. Yeah. It's random. It's weird.
I mean,
sometimes guys take head kicks full on head kicks and they don't go to sleep.
It's.
Positioned it's position. Everything is.
Position. Well, Hey, can you base, can you, can you lock down? See it?
Did you see it? That's.
That's can you base you huge piece?
Because if you don't see a ya brace in for it, so you're letting it is again,
the linear or rotational is what's causing a concussion.
And when you don't see a shot, those are the ones that cause the most damage.
If you're able to BR brace for it and, and, and bite down on the punch,
it's a lot better. So a lot of times when you're seeing two hooks,
both people hooking, I throw like this, I turn away.
And then all of a sudden I come and I don't see it.
I'm causing that head on collision, but I'm not braced for it.
I'm not leaning against the wall. Where if I see a hook coming, I've got my,
my head carrying my weight. Yeah. And able to take the shots.
So a lot of times it's the shots you don't see coming. And that's the,
the timing.
But there are people who punch you in any moment and you're gonna go to sleep.
Yeah. That's's dancing. Power's so weird. And isn't that?
So that's like one of the craziest thing in this, in this world. It's it's no,
if it.
Was it, Tony would've.
Went to sleep. I'm telling you, I I've seen people who don't my.
Bull on one foot when I touched them. Hey, your low kick. So was, so.
Was low kick for many years, wasn't thrown with the right technique.
But it is when you kick people, they're like, oh my gosh, like you have a sharp,
heavy bone. It's so unique. Got dense.
Bones. They get the denses.
Bones in the UFC. There you go. So there's a spot. Yeah. So they've.
Done a scan on you. Well,
they said they can't confirm or deny got the denses bone in the UFC.
Can't't it out? I know, right? No, it out.
They have a dense, they have a dexamous dexxa scan right at, uh,
U F C P I mm-hmm <affirmative>. And it, you know,
you lay there inch by inch scans.
Their whole body tells you what you're made of. Um, but yeah, my,
your bones are denser than yo L's I would assume. So. That seems crazy.
That guy.
I.